Daily, millions of ants travel from their nest to their hunting grounds with nearly no congestion.
How?
When army ants leave their nest, they navigate around those returning with food,
instinctively adjusting to the returning ants' limited maneuverability.
When leaf cutter ants encounter slow-moving, load-carrying members,
they adapt by reducing speed, forming clusters, and moving as a collective group.
Researchers say that this actually helps ants reach their destination quicker,
as they will have the right of way and avoid head-on collisions with ants coming out of the nest.
Additionally, ants can communicate by touching and tenning,
enabling them to overcome even more complex navigational problems.
In contrast, billions of hours each year are wasted when individuals find themselves locked in traffic.
Scientists hope to mimic the ants' instinctive adaptability by designing traffic systems
that optimize vehicle flow through changing road conditions.
What do you think? Did the ants' ability to avoid congestion come about by evolution?
Or was it designed?